---CONTACT:---
Choosing the right attorney for your legal service is easy when you turn to Newman Associates, P.C. – George Henry Newman. We are honored to be your choice for excellent representation that caters to your needs.
To schedule an appointment, complete the form below with your name, contact information, and appointment date request. A confirmation will appear after you click "Submit." A representative of our law firm will then contact you to confirm your appointment. We look forward to working with you!

---PUBLICATIONS:---
(see pubs.html)

---CASES:---
Mr. Newman is a practicing Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, criminal defense lawyer. The following are examples of cases Mr. Newman has handled at the trial court level:

 
His very first federal jury trial, that of a man charged with hiding his two nephews who had escaped from Virginia's death row, resulted in a not guilty verdict (Johnnie Lee Council). In his first homicide case, he was able to convince the government's attorney that his client was a victim, and not the shooter, by having a bullet removed from his client's shoulder, which came from the shooter's gun, and was not a close-fired shot.
 
Mr. Newman has successfully litigated appeals, which reversed the death sentences of Perry Poole, Michael LaCava (police killing), and Billy Brooks. He retried all three cases with successful results. None of these men returned to death row. He also represented one of two brothers charged in the most highly investigated police killing in Philadelphia history, preventing a death penalty. He has tried other murder cases to a not guilty (Darnell Murphy, Alex Hague), and even had a murder case discharged at a preliminary hearing on the grounds of self-defense.
 
Mr. Newman successfully prevented an adult trial of a Long Island juvenile football player charged with the extreme hazing, including charges of sodomy, of younger football players while at a training camp in the Poconos. The youth was sent to a boot camp for several months.
 
He represented the head of the Delaware Valley Pagans, who received a short sentence (27 months), for a daylight shooting in South Philadelphia, witnessed by over a dozen law enforcement agents, including the FBI.
Mr. Newman tried the case of the owner of an ambulance company charged with taking diverted calls from a 911 dispatcher, gaining the dismissal of all felony charges.
 He successfully prevented the federal prosecution of the head of an alleged telemarketing scheme involving over $100 million.
 Mr. Newman represented a Berks County District Judge charged with obstruction of justice and destruction of evidence. A week-long jury trial resulted in a complete acquittal
 Mr. Newman has represented a number of police officers. He was successful in having the harsh sentence of John Baird (initially represented by another attorney), the leader of the “39th District” police gang, reduced from 13 years to time-served.
 He recently convinced prosecutors not to charge a man with murder, who had fired his gun in self-defense.
 Just as notably, some of Mr. Newman’s successes are those cases in which, after vigorous pre-charge representation, no charges were filed against his clients. For example, Mr. Newman has represented students at the University of Pennsylvania, Drexel University, Pennsylvania State University, and Lehigh University who were falsely accused of rape. Mr. Newman has recently successfully convinced the U. S. Justice Department to not charge an attorney in a multi-million dollar Medicare fraud case.
The following represents examples of Mr. Newman's results in the appeals courts: United States v. Davis, 322 F.Supp 2d 591 (ED. Pa. 2004) (No leadership role enhancement).
United States v, Baird, 218 F.3d 221 (3d Cir. 2000) (prior counsel ineffective for failing to object to use of information provided by defendant per cooperation agreement)
United States v. Medford, 194 F.3d 419 (3d Cir. 1999) (due process requires notice of intent to upwardly depart)
Commonwealth v. Brooks, 839 A.2d 245 (Pa. 2003) (death penalty reversed, new trial granted)
Commonwealth v. Fontanez, 739 A.2d 152 (Pa. 1999) (forfeiture reversal)
Commonwealth v. Caine, 683 A.2d 890 (en banc Pa. Super 1996) (reversed and defendant discharged on homicide by vehicle while DUI)
Commonwealth v. LaCava, 666 A.2d 221 (Pa. 1995) (death penalty reversed; life sentence on retrial)
Commonwealth v.Perry, 644 A.2d 705 (Pa. 1994) (death penalty reversed, new trial granted)
Commonwealth v. Ben Samuel, 590 A.2d 1245 (1991) (manslaughter conviction reversed, client discharged)
Commonwealth v. Garcia, 588 A.2d 951 (Pa. Super 1991) (improper to bring in evidence of expert’s opinion on whether or not behavior was consistent with that of rape victim)
Commonwealth v. Austin, 575 A.2d 141 (Pa. Super. 1990). (insufficient evidence for murder charges)
Commonwealth v. Butler, 552 A.2d 702 (Pa. Super 1988) (double jeopardy bars second trial on drug charges after acquittal on DUI charges)
Commonwealth v. Fultz, 462 A.2d 1340 (Pa. Super. 1983) (sexual assault conviction reversed due to the trial counsel’s failure to challenge young witness’ competency)
The above is a sample of the cases Mr. Newman has handled in which Mr. Newman has been successful in the appellate courts. Of course, cases in which Mr. Newman has been successful at trial are not appealed.

---Practice Areas:---
(see typesOfLaw.html)

---Home:---
Build a stronger defense with representation from Newman Associates, P.C. – George Henry Newman in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. George Henry Newman practices criminal defense nationwide in the Federal Court system, and throughout the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in state cases.
His practice is limited exclusively to criminal defense in trial, appellate, habeas corpus, and asset forfeiture matters. He is certified as a criminal trial advocate by the National Board of Trial Advocacy. Mr. Newman is a sole practitioner with his office in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He received a B.A. with honors from the University of Pennsylvania in 1971, and a J.D. from Temple University Law School in 1975.
Mr. Newman is a former Assistant Defender for the Defender Association of Philadelphia. He also clerked for the Honorable Richard B. Klein of the Court of Common Pleas of Philadelphia County (later of the Superior Court). Mr. Newman has also handled a variety of noteworthy cases at the trial court level.
He is admitted to practice before the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, the United States District Court for the Eastern, Middle and Western Districts of Pennsylvania, the Third Circuit Court of Appeals and the United States Supreme Court. Mr. Newman is a member of the Philadelphia Bar Association, the Pennsylvania Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers (PACDL), and the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers (NACDL).
		
	Lawyer - Criminal Attorney	
		
As an active Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, criminal defense attorney, he served in 1987 and 2004 as Chairman of the Criminal Justice Section of the Philadelphia Bar. From 1993-1999, he served two, three-year terms, to which he was elected, on NACDL'S Board of Directors.
He helped found PACDL, and served as vice president from 1988 through 1990. He has lectured and written on criminal defense, forfeiture, legal ethics, federal sentencing and guidelines, and legal research.
Mr. Newman is the 2006 recipient of the Philadelphia Bar Association's Justice Thurgood Marshall Award, and is listed in Who's Who in American Law. He has served multiple terms on NACDL's Board of Directors, and is a member of NACDL's Champion advisory board.